Improve the Kubernetes API reference generation guide (#56398)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/contribute/generate-ref-docs/kubernetes-api.md

<!-- overview -->

> This page shows how to generate the Kubernetes API reference documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how you can generate an updated version of the Kubernetes API
reference documentation. It is aimed at people who are contributing to Kubernetes.
```

The [kubernetes-sigs/reference-docs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/reference-docs)
`gen-apidocs` generator builds the API reference from the
[Kubernetes OpenAPI spec](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/api/openapi-spec/swagger.json).

If you find bugs in the generated content, you most likely need to
[fix them upstream](/docs/contribute/generate-ref-docs/contribute-upstream/).

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "prerequisites-ref-docs.md" >}}

<!-- steps -->

{{< note >}}
These steps use a bash or zsh shell (Linux or macOS). On Windows, run them from
[WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/wsl/).
{{< /note >}}

## Set up the local repositories

Clone the two repositories you need. You do not need a local
`kubernetes/kubernetes` checkout — the spec-preparation step fetches it for you.

```shell

> git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/website

Reviewer: We shouldn't assume that their clone is named `website` (mine isn't).

We shouldn't assume that they already have a fork.

Author: Good , fixed

```

## Prepare the OpenAPI spec

The `swagger.json` checked into `kubernetes/kubernetes` is missing many enum
values that the reference needs. The `updateapispec-enums-from-source` target
regenerates an enum-complete spec: it shallow-clones the release tag into a
temporary directory, enables enum generation, verifies the result, and removes
the checkout — so you never maintain a local `kubernetes/kubernetes` clone.

From `<rdocs-base>` (your `reference-docs` clone):

```shell
cd <rdocs-base>
make updateapispec-enums-from-source
```

{{< note >}}
This step needs network access and the OpenAPI build prerequisites that
`kubernetes/kubernetes` uses (for example, `etcd`). Set `KEEP_TMP=1` to keep the
temporary checkout for debugging.
{{< /note >}}

## Build and publish the reference

`gen-apidocs` auto-detects API groups and versions from `swagger.json`, so there
is no per-release `config.yaml` to edit. From `<rdocs-base>`, build the backend
you need and copy it into `<web-base>`:

```shell
cd <rdocs-base>
make copyapi      # single-page HTML     -> <web-base>/static/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/<version>/

> make copyapimd    # Hugo-native Markdown -> <web-base>/content/en/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/

Reviewer: nit: put `/content/en/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/` first (it's the reference that we recommend people look at)

Author: done

```

The first `make` run downloads the Go module dependencies, which can take a few
minutes.

`gen-apidocs` produces both backends. The older `gen-resourcesdocs` generator,

> which once produced the Markdown reference, is now deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which once produced the Markdown reference, is deprecated. However, you may
see pages that mention `gen-resourcesdocs` because those guides are not yet
updated.
```
?

Author: Thanks, this make look better

Check what changed in your website clone:

```shell
cd <web-base>
git status
```

## Test the API reference locally

Preview your changes:

```shell
cd <web-base>
git submodule update --init --recursive --depth 1   # if not already done
make container-serve
```

Open the [local preview](http://localhost:1313/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/) and

> check the pages you regenerated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a web browser, open the local preview of the Kubernetes website, and check the pages you updated.
Hugo serves that local preview at http://localhost:1313/
so the page to check is: http://localhost:1313/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/
```
